
Some notes on US crypto laws when publishing on the Play Store
==============================================================

Basically, use of SSL, TLS, SSH or any other crypto protocol, even widely used
or publicly accessible, is subject to US crypto laws.

---------------------------------------------------------------------

See this: http://stackoverflow.com/questions/2135081/does-my-application-contain-encryption

Full legal text : http://www.ecfr.gov/cgi-bin/text-idx?c=ecfr&rgn=div5&view=text&node=15:2.1.3.4.25&idno=15#15:2.1.3.4.25.0.1.13

In a nutshell, SSH crypto => Notification to crypt@bis.doc.gov and to enc@nsa.gov

---------------------------------------------------------------------

EAR, paragraph 740.13.(e) [Free of cost, publicly available source code]

(e) Publicly available encryption source code.

(1) Scope and eligibility.  Subject to the notification requirements of
paragraph (e)(3) of this section, this paragraph (e) authorizes exports and
reexports of publicly available encryption source code classified under ECCN
5D002 that is subject to the EAR (see § 734.3(b)(3) of the EAR). Such source
code is eligible for License Exception TSU under this paragraph (e) even if it
is subject to an express agreement for the payment of a licensing fee or
royalty for commercial production or sale of any product developed using the
source code.

(2) Restrictions. This paragraph (e) does not authorize:

(i) Export or reexport of any encryption software classified under ECCN 5D002
that does not meet the requirements of paragraph (e)(1), even if the software
incorporates or is specially designed to use other encryption software that
meets the requirements of paragraph (e)(1) of this section; or

(ii) Any knowing export or reexport to a country listed in Country Group E:1 in
Supplement No. 1 to part 740 of the EAR.

(3) Notification requirement. You must notify BIS and the ENC Encryption
Request Coordinator via e-mail of the Internet location ( e.g., URL or Internet
address) of the publicly available encryption source code or provide each of
them a copy of the publicly available encryption source code. If you update or
modify the source code, you must also provide additional copies to each of them
each time the cryptographic functionality of the source code is updated or
modified. In addition, if you posted the source code on the Internet, you must
notify BIS and the ENC Encryption Request Coordinator each time the Internet
location is changed, but you are not required to notify them of updates or
modifications made to the encryption source code at the previously notified
location. In all instances, submit the notification or copy to
crypt@bis.doc.gov and to enc@nsa.gov.

Note to paragraph ( e ): Posting encryption source code on the Internet ( e.g.,
FTP or World Wide Web site) where it may be downloaded by anyone neither
establishes “knowledge” of a prohibited export or reexport for purposes of this
paragraph, nor triggers any “red flags” imposing a duty to inquire under the
“Know Your Customer” guidance provided in Supplement No. 3 to part 732 of the
EAR. Publicly available encryption object code software classified under ECCN
5D002 is not subject to the EAR when the corresponding source code meets the
criteria specified in this paragraph (e), see § 734.3(b)(3) of the EAR.
